# Logistic_Optimization_WiFi
This report introduces an optimization solution for the placement of WiFi routers in big apartment complexes. The underlying problem we identified is the overuse of WiFi routers within apartment complexes. The excessive amount of routers is caused due to individual purchases of routers for every apartment, while the reach of the routers goes beyond the individual apartments. The report covers several steps in order to have a 360 approach to this topic. First, it explains the building of a mathematical model using various assumptions and parameters. Then it proceeds to describe how these insights and assumptions were implemented in Python code. The model created and used in this project is a simplified model, which is applicable to specific situations. However, it is flexible in terms of adapting to many parameters to fulfill the need of specifications.  Furthermore, the report sheds light on various fields in our society, including sustainability aspects, energy, and health challenges, which are impacted by WiFi routers. Lastly, the report discusses the opportunities and limitations of the model. 
While social aspects and more practical considerations need to be examined in more detail, the results focus on the environmental implications of the optimization. The model with the given test parameters showed the potential to reduce the number of WiFi routers in one complex from 180 to 4 or 13 routers, depending on the router (2.4GHz or 5.0GHz) chosen. These numbers might be overly optimistic but show a strong indication of the impact this model can have on sustainability. From an energy-saving point of view, this could lead to a saving of a total of 8317.8 kg $CO_2e$ due to lower production of routers and 18499.6 kWh from the use of the devices per year. While this is the first key takeaway of the optimization model, the results and potential opportunities are promising to have an enormous impact on the building sector in the future.
